(1) What are the advantages of Bootstrap?
ans:- Bootstrap offers many advantages for web designers and developers, such as saving time and effort by providing ready-made components and styles that can be customized and combined. It also ensures consistency and compatibility, as it follows a standard design and coding convention, and uses a mobile-first approach.




(2) What is a Bootstrap Container, and how does it work? 
ans:- Containers are the most basic layout element in Bootstrap and are required when using our default grid system. Containers are used to contain, pad, and (sometimes) center the content within them. While containers can be nested, most layouts do not require a nested container.


(3) What are the default Bootstrap text settings? 
ans:-Bootstrap sets basic global display, typography, and link styles. When more control is needed, check out the textual utility classes.

Use a native font stack that selects the best font-family for each OS and device.
For a more inclusive and accessible type scale, we use the browser’s default root font-size (typically 16px) so visitors can customize their browser defaults as needed.
Use the $font-family-base, $font-size-base, and $line-height-base attributes as our typographic base applied to the <body>.
Set the global link color via $link-color.
Use $body-bg to set a background-color on the <body> (#fff by default).
These styles can be found within _reboot.scss, and the global variables are defined in _variables.scss. Make sure to set $font-size-base in rem.


(4) What do you know about the Bootstrap Grid System? 
ans:-Use our powerful mobile-first flexbox grid to build layouts of all shapes and sizes thanks to a twelve column system, five default responsive tiers, Sass variables and mixins, and dozens of predefined classes.



(5) What is the difference between Bootstrap 4 and Bootstrap 5 
ans:- BOOTSTRAP 4	               BOOTSTRAP 5
Grid System	It has 5 tier (xs, sm, md, lg, xl).	It has 6 tier (xs, sm, md, lg, xl, xxl).
Color	It has limited colors.	Extra colors added with the looks, A card improved color palette. there are various shades available to choose.
Jquery	It has jquery and all related plugins.	Jquery is removed and switched to vanilla JS with some working plugins
Internet Explorer	Bootstrap 4 supports both IE 10 and 11.	Bootstrap 5 doesn’t support IE 10 and 11.
Form elements	Radio buttons, checkboxes have different look in different OS and browsers. The form uses whatever default browsers provide.	The look of form elements will not change, on different OS or browser. The forms can be customized and form controls can be added, they would not depend on browser. 
Utilities API	We cannot modify utilities in bootstrap 4	Bootstrap 5 gave freedom to modify and also create our own utility
Gutter	We use .glutter with fontsize in px	We use .g* with fontsize in rem
Vertical Classes	Columns can be positioned relative	Columns cannot be positioned relative
Bootstrap Icons	Bootstrap 4 doesn’t have its own SVG icons, we have to use font-awesome for icons.	Bootstrap 5 have its own SVG icons
Jumbotron	It supports.	It doesn’t support jumbotron.
Card deck	The card deck is used to create a set of cards with equal width and height.	Card deck class in removed in bootstrap
Navbar	We have inline-block property and we will get white dropdown as default for dropdown-menu-dark class.	Inline-block property is removed and we will get black dropdown as default for dropdown-menu-dark class.
Static Site Generator	Bootstrap 4 uses Jekyll software.	Bootstrap 5 uses Hugo software as it is fast static site generator.
flexbox grid	this makes easier to implement vertical designs, and the columns and rows can easily be implemented. the classes justify-center-content can directly be used to align according to the requirement.	advanced grid system is made available , also columns don’t have relative positions.  
RTL Support	It does not enable RTL(Right to Left) switching.	It enables RTL(Right to Left) switching.
Offcanvas Component	It does not support Offcanvas Component.	It supports Offcanvas Component(that is it is available now).


(6) What is a Button Group, and what is the class for a basic Button Group?
ans:- “Button Groups” in Bootstrap is a class of name “btn-group” which is used to create a series of buttons in groups (without spaces) vertically or horizontally.

Syntax: This is the basic syntax of the button group class where each button has its own class of “btn”.


(7) How can you use Bootstrap to make thumbnails? 
ans:- Bootstrap helps web developers to create thumbnails that are used to show linked images in grids with the pre-defined classes which help to reduce codes length. Thumbnails are created to provide a quick preview of images with small images.

Thumbnail Image: A thumbnail is a small image that represents a larger image. Bootstrap has an easy way to do this with thumbnails. Bootstrap’s .thumbnail class is used to show linked images in grids (grid system), a thumbnail is created using class .thumbnail within the element <a>.  The class .col-sm-* and .col-md-* (where * represent number ), it is used to create grids of the images.



(8) In Bootstrap 4, what is flexbox? 
ans:- Quickly manage the layout, alignment, and sizing of grid columns, navigation, components, and more with a full suite of responsive flexbox utilities. For more complex implementations, custom CSS may be necessary.


