(1) What is React Js?

ans:-React is a JavaScript library created by Facebook

React is a User Interface (UI) library

React is a tool for building UI components




(2) What is NPM in React Js?
ans:-
NPM is short for node package manager, an online directory that contains the various already registered open-source packages.


(3) What is Role of Node Js in react Js?
ans:-Node is the most popular platform for hosting and running web servers for React apps. After all, using NPM (Node Package Manager), you can install any package with NPM command-line interface CLI. Moreover, Node utilizes Webpack and other modules to turn a React application into an easily compilable single file.


(4) What is CLI command In React Js?
ans:-React has its own command-line interface (CLI) commands. However, these CLI commands are currently only used to create a passable version of a react application using the command line.

(5)What is Components in React Js?
ans:-Components are independent and reusable bits of code. They serve the same purpose as JavaScript functions, but work in isolation and return HTML. Components come in two types, Class components and Function components, in this tutorial we will concentrate on Function components.



(6) What is Header and Content Components in React Js?
ans:-Headers are compositions that extend standard navbar functionalities. They contain additional components like a jumbotron, sub-navbar, or image covers which serve as a containers for extra navigation elements - usually links, forms, or call-to-action buttons.


(7) How to install React Js on Windows, linux Operating System? How
to install NPM and How to check version of NPM?
• How to check version of React Js?
• How to change in components of React Js?
ans:-Step 1: Install Node. js and npm.
Step 2: Install Create React App.
Step 3: Create a New React Project.
Step 4: Go To the Project Directory and Start the Development Server.


(8)  How to check version of React Js?
ans:-React is a Javascript front-end library that is used to build single-page applications (SPA). Knowing the version can help you understand the available features, check for updates, and ensure compatibility with other dependencies. In this article, we will explore different methods to check the version of ReactJS.

To check the version of React we can use these 3 approaches:

Table of Content

Using package.json file
Using the command line
Using the version property of default import from React



(9) How to change in components of React Js?
ans:-setState() setState() enqueues changes to the component state and tells React that this component and its children need to be re-rendered with the updated state. This is the primary method you use to update the user interface in response to event handlers and server responses.
